# Shiksha Copilot

## Overview
**Shiksha Copilot** is a part of project **VELLM (universal empowerment with LLMs)** from Microsoft Research India. It is a copilot experience built for teachers to create their own lesson plans and learning experiences for next classes that they would be teaching using this copilot.

As a teacher, you can select the curriculum that you are teaching, the grade, the subject and chapter that you would like to teach in your next classes and build engaging learning experiences for teaching in the class. This includes real world examples, analogies, hands on activities, assessments etc. Once these engaging learning experiences are generated, the teacher can validate the content. Shiksha Copilot then automatically creates deliverables like lesson plant document, presentation and student handout using this validated lesson plan. Teachers can also generate question banks spanning across various chapters in a subject, based on a generally accepted question paper blueprint structure. There is also a facility to interact with Shiksha Copilot using a chat window, and ask questions about any textbook chapter or create custom learning experiences for their students.

## What Can Shiksha Copliot Do?

- Shiksha Copilot has been developed with and for teachers across India and it plays the role of a virtual assistant. It assists the teacher by creating more engaging and personalized experiences grounded in local textbook content, driven by learning outcomes thus reducing manual effort and expediating the content creation process. 
- The teachers can create many engaging learning experiences like hands-on-activities, assessments, real-world examples or analogies etc. 
- Once the teachers create the lesson plans, the content would be available in docx and ppt format to be directly consumed in their classroom. 
- Teachers can also interact with in chat in a free-flowing conversation to ask questions or generate new learning experiences.
- A Question bank generation feature is also available which can be used to generate question papers based on a generally accepted question paper blueprint format.

## Intended Uses

- **Shiksha Copilot**’s intended use is working with teachers and empowering teachers across the globe to generate personalized and engaging learning experiences unique to their students’ needs, grounded on their textbook curriculum, thereby improving the overall learning outcomes.

- **Shiksha Copilot's** code base along with its **reusable components** is being shared with the research community to facilitate reproduction of our results and foster further research in this area. The resuable components can be used in tandem with each other like in Shiksha Copilot, or separately as required by the specific use case. It is intended to be used by domain experts who are independently capable of evaluating the quality of outputs before acting on them.

## Out-of-Scope Uses
We do not recommend using **Shiksha Copilot or any of its components** in commercial or real-world applications without further testing and development. It is being released for research purposes.

**Shiksha Copilot or any of its components** should not be used in highly regulated domains where inaccurate outputs could suggest actions that lead to injury or negatively impact an individual's legal, financial, or life opportunities.

We do not recommend using **Shiksha Copilot or any of its components** in the context of high-risk decision-making (e.g., in law enforcement, legal, finance, or healthcare).

## How to Get Started With Shiksha's Reusable Components

### Ingestion Pipeline

### LLM Queue

### RAG Wrapper

### Translation Model Training and Evaluations

## Deployment of Shiksha Copilot

### Backend Deployment

### Frontend Deployment

## Evaluation
- We performed a qualitative analysis to evaluate the quality of the **Shiksha Copilot** system using the internal testing team and received early feedback from our collaborator, Sikshana Foundation. To measure any possible harms through the system, we performed two rounds of red teaming.
- We actively perform automatic content moderation on content generated by (and input to) the Shiksha Co-Pilot using Azure Content Filtering. We also use meta prompts for providing guidelines to the Copilot to generate education related content only and generate the content that is unbaised and respectful. 
- We also monitor the system responses through anonymous telemetry to identify ongoing issues with the system and make periodic improvements.

## Limitations
**Shiksha Copilot and its components** were developed for research and experimental purposes. Further testing and validation are needed before considering its application in commercial or real-world scenarios.
**Shiksha Copilot** was designed and tested using the English language. Performance in other languages may vary and should be assessed by someone who is both an expert in the expected outputs and a native speaker of that language.
Outputs generated by AI may include factual errors, fabrication, or speculation. Users are responsible for assessing the accuracy of generated content. All decisions leveraging outputs of the system should be made with human oversight and not be based solely on system outputs.
**Shiksha Copilot** inherits any biases, errors, or omissions produced by its base model. Developers are advised to choose an appropriate base LLM/MLLM carefully, depending on the intended use case.
**Shiksha Copilot** uses the *GPT4o* model. See [link to model card] to understand the capabilities and limitations of this model.
There has not been a systematic effort to ensure that **Shiksha Copilot** is protected from security vulnerabilities such as indirect prompt injection attacks. Any systems using it should take proactive measures to harden their systems as appropriate.

## Best Practices
Better performance can be achieved by *using better(larger) models or smaller models tailored to your specific usecase*.
We strongly encourage users to use LLMs/MLLMs that support robust Responsible AI mitigations, such as Azure Open AI (AOAI) services. Such services continually update their safety and RAI mitigations with the latest industry standards for responsible use. For more on AOAI’s best practices when employing foundation models for scripts and applications:
- [Blog post on responsible AI features in AOAI that were presented at Ignite 2023](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/ai-azure-ai-services-blog/announcing-new-ai-safety-amp-responsible-ai-features-in-azure/ba-p/3983686)
- [Overview of Responsible AI practices for Azure OpenAI models](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/cognitive-services/openai/overview)
- [Azure OpenAI Transparency Note](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/cognitive-services/openai/transparency-note)
- [OpenAI’s Usage policies](https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies)
- [Azure OpenAI’s Code of Conduct](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/cognitive-services/openai/code-of-conduct)

Users are responsible for sourcing their datasets legally and ethically. This could include securing appropriate copyrights, ensuring consent for use of audio/images, and/or anonymizing data prior to use in research.
Users are reminded to be mindful of data privacy concerns and are encouraged to review the privacy policies associated with any models and data storage solutions interfacing with **Shiksha Copilot**.
It is the user’s responsibility to ensure that the use of **Shiksha Copilot** complies with relevant data protection regulations and organizational guidelines.

## License

## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft 
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow 
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.

## Privacy & Ethics

## Contact
We welcome feedback and collaboration from our audience. If you have suggestions, questions, or observe unexpected/offensive behavior in our technology, please contact us at *kchourasia@microsoft.com*.
If the team receives reports of undesired behavior or identifies issues independently, we will update this repository with appropriate mitigations.

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.


